# Edge Security

As part of EnOS, EnOS Edge fully complies with EnOS security standards and unified protection rules, and implements security control for hardware, cloud communication, certificate encryption and access control.

## Edge Devices

Edge is a software that can be installed on different qualified hardware. EnOS Edge device has built-in firmware and software upgrade features for manual or automatic upgrade of critical security vulnerabilities. Any changes, or firmware or software upgrade applied to the Edge will be logged in EnOS cloud.

The unused USB ports are disabled by default to prevent malicious access. Edge's network policy only allows to ports to be used by necessary applications and services.

Edge supports encrypting the hardware with TPM chips, which helps to securely store client certificates. As for the RSA public and private keys generated by the TPM chip, the private keys are stored in the TPM chip, while the private key tags and the public keys are stored in relevant files. The private keys can never be taken out from the TPM chip, that is to say, the encrypted files cannot be decrypted except by combining the local TPM chip and relevant files, ensuring high security.


## Communication with the EnOS cloud

Any Edge device needs to be created in EnOS cloud before it can communicate with EnOS cloud. Each Edge device has a unique identity that the EnOS cloud can use to communicate with the Edge. The identity and the user-customized Edge ID form the basis of the tokens and signatures needed to communicate with EnOS cloud. The Edge ID can be an out-of-the-box, fixed identifier, such as a device serial number, a network MAC address or any other identifier that can not be changed easily. The Edge ID is managed by the edge device connector of the EnOS cloud through the EnOS console or API interface. The EnOS cloud provides secure storage for Edge IDs and keys.

The Edge communicates with the EnOS cloud over a TLS data channel. X.509 certificate-based dual-way authentication is enforced for each session. To ensure that each Edge device has its own unique client certificate, the certificate request is executed by the Edge device on its first power-on. The Edge device generates a public key certificate request according to public key infrastructure (PKI), which contains a unique device identifier (serial number or MAC address) and a corresponding private key. The certificate request is then forwarded to the EnOS authentication service or a CA for signature. The signed public key certificate will then be sent back to the Edge device and stored locally along with the private key.

To ensure the secure connection from the device to the EnOS cloud, the TLS protocol is applied to data transfer, where the public key encryption is used to avoid eavesdropping, tampering or message forgery.

When a device calls an API provided by EnOS, such a call is based on the HTTPS protocol. The TLS channel between the device and the EnOS cloud uses X.509 certificate-based dual-way authentication, and all data is encrypted.


## Access control

The Edge users' access permissions can be managed from EnOS cloud. In addition, log auditing is also provided in Edge. The operations and changes by all users are recorded in the audit logs and uploaded to the cloud.



